# Introduction to Programming as Conversation

## Introduction

Welcome! In this module we’re going to start learning how to program in Python.

It will be a long process and you will have moments of elation, excitement and,
sometimes, we're sorry to say, frustration. But we _promise_ you, learning to
think in the disciplined way that programming teaches will change your life for
the better.

## Programming as Conversation

Our method for teaching programming starts from a different place than you
might expect. If you've ever looked at programming tutorial or book you might
be expecting lectures on loops, variables, data types, or something like that.
We think there's a different, and better, way. We start by thinking deeply
about having _conversations_.

Many of the ideas we’ll share in this module ask you to reflect on "when you
learned to talk" or "when you’re talking with a friend." We call this
"programming as conversation" and it gets you to think about _communicating_
instead of "memorizing strange programmer words, facts, and symbols." You'll
learn those words and symbols eventually, of course, but you'll see them as
rules for communication, never as the point of programming itself.

## Programming is Communication

***Programming is communication.***

At its heart, programming is about communicating strategies for solving
problems.

We have to communicate with computers using funny words and symbols. The reason
we do that is because people express themselves in tons of ways and it's hard
to make a machine understand them all. It's far easier to teach people to talk
to the machine in a language it can understand (although it's frustrating for
us!).

One of the most essential ways of communicating, that we've all practiced
thousands of times, is a _conversation_.

## Communication through Conversation

"Conversation" comes from the Latin words mean "with turns." In conversation we
"take turns" expressing ourselves. When we converse in this way, we're
_interacting_. Each person in the conversation shares their insights. Shared
curiosity leads the pair to a new areas of discussion or explanation.

But in a conversation something _else_ happens behind you say something / I say
something. That would just be two people talking nearby. In a _conversation_
something else happens, something that requires the things that are said to be
_transformed_. We call the things we say "expression" and the transformation
"evaluation."

## Expression and Evaluation

In a conversation, we said, each person "expresses themselves." But let's be
more precise about what that means.

"Expression" comes from the Latin word meaning "from pushing." The ancients
imagined that, in a conversation, I would have an idea in my brain and I would
need to "push" that idea _to_ you through the words I chose, through my
_expression_. To "express oneself" then is "to capture one's being" and "push
it over to another person."

Once you "push" an expression to someone else, that expression needs to be
_evaluated_. When we're talking with a friend and we say something deep, or
challenging, or complex to them, we look at them and can see them _evaluating_
our expression.

Python does the same.

Given an _expression_, Python will _evaluate_ it and, like a good friend, give
you a reaction about _how_ it evaluated your expression. In day-to-day life we
call that a "response." It might be a snort, a giggle, an eye-roll, a head nod,
or a screaming of "ANYTHING BUT THAT!" In the programming world we call
responses from the programming language a _return value_.

***When expressions are evaluated, they return something***

## Conclusion

Congratulations! You've finished your first lesson in thinking about
programming as conversation. As you might guess, _expressions_ are really
important because they're how we "push" ideas to computers and other
programmers. We're going to spend the remainder of this module learning to
build expressions and predict how Python will _evaluate_ them.
